1. introductory provisions, interpretation of certain terms
1.1. these general business terms and conditions (hereinafter referred to as the "gtc") are business
conditions within the meaning of section 1751 of act no. 89/2012 coll., the civil code, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the "civil code"). for the purposes of these gtc, the provider shall be understood in connection with the provision of services as the provider, even if in the relevant contractual obligation relationship it is designated as the "contractor", "supplier", etc. these gtc, unless expressly agreed otherwise, apply in particular to all orders placed by the customer and to contractual relationships between the customer and the provider concerning the provision of services, as well as to all relationships arising therefrom.

1.2. the provider is a company providing highly qualified services consisting of performing chemical analysis (works) and related activities.

1.3. the customer is the person to whom the services are provided by the provider, and also means the party designated in the relevant contractual obligation relationship with the provider, in the gtc or in the provider's offer, order or other similar document relating to the provision of services as the "client", "recipient", etc. (customer and provider hereinafter also jointly referred to as the "contracting parties").

1.4. the subject of the contractual relationship to which these gtc apply is the provider's obligation to provide the services properly and on time to the customer and the customer's obligation to pay the agreed price to the provider for this.

2. contract
2.1. a contract means a contractual obligation relationship between the provider and the customer (hereinafter referred to as the "contract"), which arises by:
a) concluding (signing by the last of the contracting parties) a written contract between the provider and the customer;
b) written or electronic (email) confirmation of the provider's offer without reservations by the customer, of which the gtc form a part. confirmation of the offer without reservations by the customer also includes making a payment based on the provider's payment instructions provided to the customer simultaneously with the order from the email address info@janoshik.com;

2.2. the contract does not arise upon delivery of a shipment containing a sample to the provider's address, particularly if the customer fails to fulfill its obligations arising from point 4.2 before delivery of the shipment. no obligation of the provider towards the customer arises from the acceptance of the shipment without the customer fulfilling these obligations.

2.3. the contract represents the complete agreement of the contracting parties and replaces all their prior agreements regarding the subject of performance.

2.4. unless a written contract is concluded between the contracting parties, customers place orders for services using the template order form published on the provider's website https://janoshik.com/order/ sent to the provider's email info@janoshik.com.

2.5. the gtc form an integral part of the contract. upon the conclusion of the contract according to point 2.1., the customer accepts the provider's gtc.

2.6. if the customer places an order or a proposal to conclude a contract otherwise than through the template order form published on the provider's website, or otherwise than according to point 2.1., the provider reserves the right to condition the acceptance of the order and the provision of services on the customer expressly accepting in writing or electronically (email) the conditions contained in these gtc. by accepting the gtc, the customer agrees that the gtc are an integral part of the contract, including any contractual relationship established between the contracting parties outside the provider's template documents.

2.7. the content of the contract is not bound by, and is not subject to, any general or other business terms and conditions of the customer or a third party, and such terms of the customer or third parties do not apply in any way to the contractual relationship (contract) between the contracting parties, and the provisions of the contract and these gtc shall always take precedence in application over the business terms of the customer or a third party.

3. subject of performance
3.1. the subject of performance of the contract is the provision of more specifically defined services by the provider to the customer and the payment of the agreed price for the provision of services by the customer.
3.2. the specific specification and scope of the services shall be determined by the relevant contract.

4. order (proposal to conclude a contract)
4.1. to place an order for services offered by the provider, the customer shall use the order form available on the provider's website https://janoshik.com/order/, by sending it to the provider's email info@janoshik.com.
4.2. in each order, the customer is obliged to clearly define and specify the required subject of performance and always state in the order at least:
a) the type, specification and scope of the required services, including additional services according to the provider's price list published at https://janoshik.com/pricing/index1.php;
b) a contact address or email for order confirmation, sending the offer and communication, especially for sending analysis results; the email address from which the order was sent by the customer is understood as the email address for communication, unless stated otherwise;
c) preferred method of payment for the services;
d) the country from which the order is made and from which the sample for analysis will be sent;
e) unambiguous identification of the sample, necessary for the performance of the required services;
f) a tracking number or other unambiguous identification of the shipment containing the sample;

4.3. the customer is entitled to request the provision of services also by phone, in person, in writing or in another form, for which purpose they are obliged to provide the provider with information at least to the extent specified in the previous paragraph of the gtc. in such a case, the provider will first summarize the order for the customer in an email stating the price for the ordered service, while drawing the customer's attention to the validity of these gtc. by written acceptance of the email offer by the customer, the customer expressly agrees to the gtc and the contract is concluded.
4.4. if the customer does not expressly designate in advance in writing the persons authorized to act/represent him in matters related to ordering and providing services (including persons authorized to confirm the provision of services and accept items and documents in this context), this fact shall always be at the customer's expense. in case of any doubts, it will always be assumed that the person who made the order for the customer, provided cooperation, documents and/or information, accepted the performance, confirmed the provision of services, etc., was a person fully authorized to do so.
4.5. the customer's order is non-binding for the provider until the provider confirms (accepts) it in writing. the provider is not obliged to accept the customer's order.
4.6. if the provider accepts the order with a reservation, it is considered a counter-offer, upon whose confirmation by the customer and delivery to the provider, the contract is concluded.
4.7. any individual and/or specific conditions or requirements of the customer for the provision of services must be stated in the order. especially data about the sample and the customer (client name, sample name, manufacturer, batch) required by the customer on the analysis report sheet and additional services according to point 4.2 a). the provider has the right to refuse individual and/or specific conditions or requirements of the customer for the provision of services made after the conclusion of the contract.
4.8. the customer is obliged to state in the contract or notify the provider in writing or electronically (email) of the email address for communication with the provider and for the purposes of electronic invoicing or other outputs, especially analysis outputs.
4.9. the customer is obliged to notify the provider of any change in the email address for communication with the provider and for the purposes of electronic invoicing or other outputs, especially analysis outputs.
4.10. if the customer fails to fulfill its obligation according to points 4.8. and 4.9., the provider is entitled to conduct communication with the customer and send him invoices and/or other outputs to the address from which the order was made, or via email addresses published by the customer on its website, etc. any notifications, submissions and/or outputs of the provider sent to such addresses will be considered duly made.

5. delivery periods
5.1. unless the contract, order or other similar document stipulates otherwise, the guaranteed delivery time (the time within which the provider undertakes to perform the analysis with a report of results, in the event that no unexpected complication occurs) is 21 working days from the receipt of the sample.
5.2. if the order does not contain an unambiguous identification of the sample, necessary for the performance of the required services, and this identification is not provided by the customer at the time of sample receipt, the order may be delayed or not processed.
5.3. the delivery period for the analysis and reporting may be extended due to the technological period required for the analysis.
5.4. receipt of the sample means receiving and checking whether the sample was delivered in a condition suitable for analysis. the moment of sample receipt is identical to the moment of sending the confirmation email about the sample receipt by the provider to the customer's email address.
5.5. the provider is obliged to process the receipt of the sample within 3 working days from the physical delivery of the sample by the carrier.
5.6. if the order does not contain a tracking number or other unambiguous identification of the shipment containing the sample according to point 4.2 f), the period within which the provider is obliged to process the sample receipt is extended to the time by which the customer supplements the tracking number or other unambiguous identification of the shipment, extended by 3 working days.
5.7. the provider is obliged to inform the customer about damage to the sample that prevents the performance of the service. the guaranteed delivery time does not start upon receipt of a damaged sample.

6. rights and obligations of the customer
6.1. the customer is obliged to provide the provider with material samples for the performance of the service in sufficient quantity, and if necessary, at the provider's request, to provide additional samples or provide necessary explanations without undue delay.
6.2. if the samples provided contain, or may contain, substances with hazardous properties, the customer is obliged to state these facts in advance in the order.
6.3. substances with hazardous properties (hereinafter referred to as "shp") are mainly explosive substances, substances liable to spontaneous combustion, substances which, in contact with water, release flammable gases, organic peroxides, poisons, infectious substances, narcotic and psychotropic substances, substances capable of releasing poisonous gases and radioactive substances.
6.4. if the customer does not warn the provider in advance in writing about the hazardous properties of the samples being sent or handed over, the customer bears full responsibility for damages to property and health caused thereby.
6.5. if the customer does not warn about the possible presence of shp in the sample, the provider is entitled to perform appropriate tests to determine whether the sample contains shp, if the nature of the samples suggests the possibility of the presence of shp. if the verification test confirms the presence of shp in the sample without the customer having warned about this in advance, the customer is obliged to reimburse the provider for the reasonably incurred costs of the test.
6.6. the customer undertakes to provide all necessary information, instructions and/or specifications of requirements for the performance of the service so that the service can be performed efficiently by the provider. if the customer fails to provide this information, instructions and/or specifications or provides them ambiguously, then the provider is entitled to perform the service in a manner that corresponds to the usual method of performance and in accordance with common practice.
6.7. the customer agrees that the provider may, in necessary cases, perform part of the service with the help of a subcontractor. the provider is liable to the customer for the service performed in this way as if the service had been performed by the provider itself in the quality required by the customer.
6.8. unless agreed otherwise, the customer assumes the risks and costs associated with the transport of samples to the place designated by the provider. if the customer uses the services of a third party for sample transport, e.g., a shipping company, even if this service is arranged by the provider, the customer undertakes to fulfill the transport conditions defined by the third party. furthermore, the customer undertakes to pack or otherwise secure the samples according to the provider's procedure, and to provide the third party with all important instructions for transport that may affect the quality or properties of the sample due to improper transport and handling.
6.9. the customer has the right to resend samples in case of their loss, or in case their delivery is rendered impossible.
6.10. the customer has the right to a refund of the payment for the services and cancellation of the contract in case of loss of the sample during transport, or its damage preventing analysis during transport and during handling in the laboratory.
6.11. the customer is aware that during the performed services, samples or parts thereof may be altered, damaged, or destroyed. the provider shall not be liable to the customer or any third party for samples that are so altered, damaged, or destroyed if this is necessary for the performance of the service or for fulfilling the provider's legal obligations.
6.12. the customer is obliged to deliver the sample within 3 months from the conclusion of the contract, or inform the provider about a delay within this period. from the customer's failure to fulfill this obligation, the provider has the rights stated in point 7.3.
6.13. the customer may terminate the contractual relationship in the event of a material breach of contractual obligations by the provider, if the breach of these obligations is not remedied by the provider within 30 days of a written or electronic request from the customer demanding such remedy.

7. rights and obligations of the provider
7.1. the provider has the right to refuse to perform the service in the event of incorrect labeling of the sample that prevents its unambiguous identification or in the event of an obviously degraded sample. the provider may refuse to perform the analysis in the event of an insufficient quantity of sample material.
7.2. the provider will not perform the analysis if the sample is not delivered.
7.3. if the customer fails to fulfill its obligation set out in point 6.12., the provider has the right to consider its obligation arising from the contract fulfilled without the customer being entitled to a refund.
7.4. the provider may suspend the performance of its obligations arising from the contractual relationship with the customer or unilaterally terminate the contractual relationship, provided it delivers written notice to the customer, if:
a) the customer is in default of payment of its obligations to the provider,
b) the customer has materially breached its obligations and the breach is not remedied within 30 days of written or electronic (email) notice by the provider, or
c) the customer is given written or electronic (email) notice with a 30-day period expressing the provider's intention to terminate the contractual relationship, even without stating a reason.
7.5. the provider has the right to fulfill its legal obligations, especially from act no. 378/2007 coll., on pharmaceuticals and on amendments to certain related acts and article 95 of council regulation (ec) no. 1186/2009 of 16 november 2009 establishing a community system for relief from customs duty and article 72 of council directive 2009/132/ec of 19 october 2009 determining the scope of article 143(b) and (c) of directive 2006/112/ec, and to fulfill the requirements of its regulator, especially sukl (state institute for drug control), when providing services under the contract. this applies in particular to the necessity to keep records of samples and orders required by the regulator and the obligation to destroy the remaining part of the sample after analyses.

8. confidential information
8.1. confidential information means all information relating to the provider, its business, activities, products, procedures, customers or suppliers, which are or could reasonably be considered confidential by the provider, including all technical data, formulas, specifications, diagrams, plans, drawings, sketches, designs, business plans and reports, business methods and systems, business records, product information, unpublished financial statements and financial reports, discount and supply agreements, but excluding any information, (i) which has become or becomes generally known or available otherwise than as a result of a breach of obligations arising from this contract, (ii) which was legitimately known to the customer prior to disclosure by the provider, (iii) which originates from the customer without the use of any information provided by the provider, (iv) which the customer discloses based on the written or email consent of the provider, or (v) which the customer is obliged to disclose by law or a final decision of a court or other public authority. reference to the provider in this definition includes reference to any associated persons, current or future, of the provider.
8.2. the customer is obliged to maintain the confidentiality of confidential information regarding business conditions, technological and technical procedures, conditions for conducting tests and other procedures that are developed and used by the provider and which it received in the context of the performance of the service. this does not apply to test results, reports and evaluations received in the context of the performance of the service.
8.3. the customer is obliged to maintain the confidentiality of confidential information regarding business conditions, technological and technical procedures, conditions for conducting tests and other procedures that are developed and used by the provider and which it received in the context of the performance of the service. this does not apply to test results, reports and evaluations received in the context of the performance of the service.
8.4. the customer shall take or ensure the taking of such preventive measures as may be necessary to keep the confidential information confidential and to prevent its disclosure by any person during and after the termination of the contract.
8.5. for the avoidance of any doubt, the customer is aware and agrees that the provider may make this contract and any documents or information obtained from the customer, including confidential information, accessible to its associated persons.
8.6. any records, findings, results, data, statements, certificates issued by the provider (hereinafter referred to as "outputs") are issued based on testing samples or materials, information or documents provided by or on behalf of the customer. the customer shall indemnify any damage or non-material harm incurred by the provider, its officers, employees, agents and suppliers as a result of any claims related to any output arising from unclear, incorrect, incomplete, misleading or false information provided to the provider or as a result of any incorrect or defective materials or samples provided by it.
8.7. the customer agrees that the provider, in providing the services, performs exclusively the determination and reporting of the measured result, unless otherwise agreed in writing in this contract. the provider is therefore not obliged and has the right not to provide any services consisting of the automatic evaluation and comparison of measured results with applicable legislation, with previously measured results, or with results measured by a third party.
8.8. the customer acknowledges that the accreditation of the provider's laboratory, or any of its test reports, does not in itself confer product approval by the organization carrying out the accreditation or any other body.

9. prices and payment terms
9.1. prices for the performance of the service are provided to the customer in the offer before the conclusion of the contract. for routine samples, these are the prices stated in the provider's price list valid on the date of sending the order form by the customer or any other similar communication of the customer's request for the provision of services; for non-routine samples not included in the price list, the prices are determined by the provider directly in the offer.
9.2. the price for the performed services will be invoiced by the provider with a proper tax document with a maturity of 14 days from the date of issue.
9.3. the provider is entitled to require payment in advance. payment of the price for the services by the customer according to the provider's instructions is considered, according to point 2.1., as the conclusion of the contract.
9.4. payment can be made by bank transfer, payment card, or in the form of the cryptocurrency bitcoin according to the provider's instructions. the provider has the right to refuse other methods of payment.
9.5. the provider communicates payment instructions to the customer exclusively from the email address info@janoshik.com. the customer undertakes, as part of its own security, to check the authenticity of the address sending the payment instructions.
9.6. the exchange rate available at www.preev.com/btc/usd will be used to determine the value of bitcoin.
9.7. the value of the cryptocurrency bitcoin, or other cryptocurrency, is recognized according to the exchange rate valid at the time of the first confirmation of the transaction on the blockchain.
9.8. payment in bitcoin, or other cryptocurrency, is considered received upon the first confirmation of the transaction on the blockchain.
9.9. when refunding a payment in cryptocurrencies, the provider returns to the customer the value of the paid service in usd according to the current exchange rate, as per point 9.7.
9.10. for bank transfer and card payments, underpayment is not tolerated. for bitcoin payments, an underpayment of up to 1% of the price stated in the offer is tolerated.
9.11. the provider is entitled to charge for significant changes in the order notified by the customer after the conclusion of the contract, or for withdrawal from the contract, an administrative fee of 100 usd or its equivalent according to the exchange rate valid at the time of notification of the order change by the customer, or to refuse these changes.
9.12. the provider sends invoices to the customer in electronic form to the email, unless the contracting parties agree otherwise.
9.13. the customer is obliged to provide invoicing details to the provider within 7 days from the date of receipt of payment. if the customer fails to do so, the provider is entitled to withdraw from the contract and deduct from the refunded payment to the customer an administrative fee of 100 usd or its equivalent according to the current exchange rate.
9.14. the customer agrees to the storage of invoicing details by the provider and grants the provider permission to issue invoices with the same invoicing details for future orders as well.
9.15. in the event that the service must be interrupted or cannot be completed for reasons not caused by the provider, the provider is entitled to demand from the customer payment for the part of the service already performed (provided).
9.16. the customer is entitled to demand a refund or other compensation for services not provided (not performed), or part of the service, if the service, or part of the service, could not be completed by the provider for reasons arising on a side other than the customer's side.
9.17. if the customer does not assert claims for defects properly and on time with the provider, or if these claims are not recognized by the provider as justified, the customer is obliged to pay the price for the services in the full amount of the invoiced price.
9.18. if the customer enters into liquidation, or if insolvency proceedings are initiated concerning the customer, or if the provider otherwise obtains reasonable doubts about the customer's ability to fulfill its obligations under the contract, the provider is entitled to (i) refuse the provision of services, (ii) demand payment in advance (deposit) or cash payment for all further services, (iii) demand the provision of security for its receivables against the customer in connection with the provision of services and/or (iv) suspend/interrupt the provision of services, (v) withdraw from the contract.

10. analysis report sheet (report)
10.1. the report sheet must not be reproduced other than in its entirety, including verification data.
10.2. the report sheet cannot be changed after its issuance. the only exceptions are:
a) anonymization of the customer's name;
b) adding the result of an additional sample unit (an additionally tested tablet, etc.) tested at the customer's request within 48 hours of the report being issued.
10.3. a new report sheet is issued only due to a typographical error or mistake on the part of the provider.
10.4. the report sheet database is unidirectionally encrypted. the provider does not have access to the report sheets after they are sent. the customer is granted access to the report sheet by sending a link to the database to his email address. in case of loss of this link, it is not possible to make the report sheet accessible again.
10.5. the report sheet is considered delivered at the moment it is sent by email by the provider. for the purpose of confirming delivery, the provider records the date, time and ip address of the first opening of the report sheet in the database.
10.6. the report sheet only provides information about the sample or aliquot received by the provider from the customer.

11. quality, guarantees, liability for defects and for damages
11.1. the provider declares that the services provided by it are performed with maximum care under conditions achievable by available methods and technologies and on instrumental and machinery equipment that respects the current state of scientific and technical progress.
11.2. the provider is not liable for defects caused by shortcomings in the documents and/or information provided by the customer or if the sample was not delivered in the sufficient quantity stated in the offer or the samples were incorrectly labeled or degraded before receipt of the samples by the provider.
11.3. the customer is obliged to notify the provider of defects in performance immediately after their discovery and to complain them in writing or by email to the provider. the customer is obliged to exercise rights arising from liability for defects in writing or by email with the provider without undue delay after discovering the defect. the provisions on liability for defects in work shall apply mutatis mutandis.
11.4. the sample is destroyed within 48 hours of issuing and sending the analysis report to the customer. after the destruction of the sample, the customer cannot demand re-analysis of the sample from the provider. if the customer did not report discovered defects within that interval, the provider is entitled to demand payment of a reasonable administrative fee associated with the formalities of re-sending the sample due to the rectification of defects in the work.
11.5. costs associated with a justified complaint are borne by the provider; costs associated with a complaint that was not justified are borne by the customer.
11.6. in the event of recognition of a complaint regarding defectively provided services, the provider, in agreement with the customer:
a) ensures the removal of defects within a reasonable period,
b) provides additional or replacement performance (services) under the original conditions.
11.7. if the customer requires the provider to provide the analysis report or information and documents related to the course or result of the analyses to a third party, the provider is not bound by responsibilities and obligations towards this third party. no third party may assert any claims against the provider and/or its subcontractors arising from the analysis report or other related documents.
11.8. in the event of provable pecuniary damage on the part of the customer due to reasons exclusively on the part of the provider, the latter is obliged to compensate the customer for the pecuniary damage incurred in connection with the provision of the service, but up to a maximum of the price of the relevant order. non-pecuniary damage is not compensated.

12. delivery
12.1. a document is deemed delivered as soon as the other contracting party takes possession of it, or as soon as it is returned to the sending contracting party as undeliverable, or the contracting party, by its action or omission, frustrates its delivery. the effects of delivery also occur if the contracting party refuses to accept the document. an email is deemed delivered at the moment it is sent by the provider, unless the provider is informed of non-delivery by the email service provider, which occurred due to an error on the provider's side.
12.2. each contracting party is obliged to notify the other contracting party without undue delay of any change in its registered office, or address for sending correspondence stated in the contract and the address for sending samples.
12.3. the provider reserves the right to communicate to the customer its address designated for sample delivery and instructions for packing and sending the sample only after receiving payment.
12.4. if the customer fails to fulfill its obligations from point 4.2 f) by the time the shipment with the sample arrives at the provider's address designated for sample delivery, or by the time the shipment becomes subject to customs proceedings, the shipment is unidentifiable. the provider has the right to refuse acceptance of the unidentified shipment and the right to immediately destroy the contents of the unidentifiable shipment without compensation for the damage thus caused to the customer.
12.5. if the customer fills in details other than those specified in the provider's instructions when sending the sample, the provider has the right to refuse acceptance of the shipment.
12.6. the provider has the right to refuse acceptance of the shipment and the right to immediately destroy the contents of the shipment without compensation for the damage thus caused to the customer:
a) if the customer has not paid for the service before the receipt of the shipment by the provider;
b) if the content of the shipment does not match the order.
12.7. the customer has the right to reimbursement of costs for re-sending samples by the provider if it followed all the provider's instructions, sent the shipment via fedex, dhl or ups, and the shipment was not released from customs proceedings in the territory of the czech republic within a period shorter than 10 days.
12.8. sending the sample by a company other than fedex, dhl or ups may incur a customs clearance fee. the provider informs the customer about this consequence of choosing a courier company. the customer is obliged to pay the fee to the provider, otherwise the provider is entitled to refuse to accept the shipment.
12.9. by concluding the contract, the customer gives the provider permission to issue documentation necessary for customs proceedings in the name of the customer.
12.10. the customer undertakes, at the provider's request, to communicate information necessary for customs proceedings as soon as possible. the customer is obliged to provide its information for customs proceedings correctly and truthfully.
12.11. the provider undertakes to issue documentation for customs proceedings based on information from the customer and, to the best of its ability, as soon as possible.
12.12. the provider bears no responsibility for delays in customs proceedings and return of the shipment to the sender caused by incorrect data for customs proceedings provided by the customer or by the customer's failure to provide such data.

13. force majeure
13.1. the contracting parties are entitled to suspend the performance of their obligations under the contract for the duration of circumstances excluding liability (hereinafter referred to as "force majeure"). cases of force majeure are considered to be, in particular: strike, epidemic, fire, natural disaster, mobilization, war, insurrection, embargo, foreign exchange transfer ban, administrative restrictions not caused by the contracting party (e.g., revocation of a license or certification), terrorist attack, etc.
13.2. force majeure excludes the right to apply sanctions against the contracting party affected by force majeure.
13.3. the contracting party invoking force majeure must notify the other contracting party of this fact immediately in writing or by email and take all possible measures to mitigate the consequences of the non-fulfillment of obligations under the contract.
13.4. if force majeure lasts for longer than 45 days, both contracting parties are entitled to withdraw from the contract.

14. personal data protection
14.1. the provider processes the customer's personal data in accordance with the relevant legal regulations of the czech republic and the relevant legal regulations of the european union.
14.2. personal data that the customer provides in the order or in the contract is used exclusively for the provider's needs.
14.3. the customer acknowledges that it is obliged to provide its personal data correctly and truthfully.
14.4. information about the processing of personal data by the provider is available at the address janoshik gdpr.

15. governing law and dispute resolution
15.1. handling of customer complaints is ensured by the provider via the electronic address info@janoshik.com. the provider will send information about the handling of the customer's complaint to the customer's email.
15.2. the contract, as well as any relationship established by an order or acceptance of the provider's offer, is governed by and will be construed in accordance with the legal order of the czech republic, in particular the civil code. business customs do not take precedence over any provision of the law, not even over a provision of the law that is not mandatory.
15.3. the contracting parties jointly declare that they will first attempt to resolve all disputes amicably. if an amicable settlement cannot be reached, then the czech court with subject-matter and local jurisdiction according to the provider's registered office shall be competent to resolve disputes, including issues of validity, interpretation, implementation or termination of rights arising from the contract, unless a legal regulation stipulates exclusive jurisdiction.
15.4. information on consumer rights in the common european market and free consumer assistance in their disputes with entrepreneurs is provided by the european consumer centre czech republic, with its registered office at štěpánská 567/15, 120 00 prague 2, website: http://www.evropskyspotrebitel.cz.
15.5. the provider is authorized to operate its business based on a trade license. trade control is performed within its competence by the relevant trade licensing office. supervision over the area of personal data protection is exercised by the office for personal data protection. the czech trade inspection authority performs, within a defined scope, supervision over compliance with act no. 634/1992 coll., on consumer protection, as amended, among other things.

16. final provisions
16.1. the contracting parties are entitled to terminate the contract:
a) by written or electronic (email) agreement of both contracting parties;
b) by notice from one of the contracting parties without stating a reason; the notice period is two months and begins on the first day of the calendar month following the month in which the written or electronic notice was delivered to the other contracting party;
c) by immediate withdrawal by either contracting party in cases of material breach of the provisions stated in the gtc. the provider is further entitled to withdraw from the contract on statutory grounds.
16.2. each contracting party is further entitled to withdraw from the contract by sending a written or electronic notification, effective from the date of delivery of the withdrawal notification to the other contracting party, if:
a) a decision is made on the compulsory or voluntary dissolution of the other contracting party (except in cases of merger or consolidation);
b) the other contracting party files an insolvency petition against itself as a debtor within the meaning of section 98 of act no. 182/2006 coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its resolution (insolvency act), as amended (the "insolvency act");
c) the insolvency court does not decide on the insolvency petition against the other contracting party within 3 months of the initiation of insolvency proceedings;
d) the insolvency court issues a decision on the bankruptcy of the other contracting party within the meaning of section 136 of the insolvency act; or
e) the insolvency court declares bankruptcy on the assets of the other contracting party.
16.3. intellectual property rights arising from the services provided by the provider to the customer based on the contractual agreement remain the exclusive property of the provider. the customer is obliged to refrain from any action that could infringe the provider's intellectual property rights.
16.4. the contract may be amended or cancelled only by agreement of the contracting parties in written or electronic (email) form.
16.5. deviating agreements in the contract take precedence over the wording of these gtc.
16.6. these gtc govern all contractual agreements between the provider and the customer, unless expressly agreed otherwise in writing.
16.7. if any provision of the contract or these gtc is or becomes apparent, invalid or unenforceable, this shall not affect the validity and enforceability of the other provisions of this contract or the gtc. the contracting parties undertake to replace the apparent, invalid or unenforceable provision with a new provision whose wording will correspond to the intention expressed in the original provision and in this contract or the gtc as a whole.
16.8. the official email addresses of the provider are info@janoshik.com and office@janoshik.com. the official internet domain of the provider is janoshik.com. the customer undertakes, as part of its own security, to check the authenticity of the email address and domain.
16.9. these gtc are valid and effective from 17.05.2023 and shall cease to be effective upon the entry into force of new business terms and conditions with a later date of issue. the provider is entitled to unilaterally change or supplement the wording of these gtc to a reasonable extent if a reasonable need for their subsequent change arises. the provider must notify the customer of the effective date of the new business terms and conditions and send these new business terms and conditions to the customer with sufficient advance notice before their effective date, at least 14 days. if the customer does not express its disagreement with these new business terms and conditions in writing by the expected effective date of the new business terms and conditions, it agrees to the new business terms and conditions and they will become binding for it as of their effective date. if the customer does not agree with the new business terms and conditions, the customer is entitled to terminate the contract (if concluded) or the contractual relationship governed by these gtc, based on the delivery of the aforementioned disagreement within a three-month (3) notice period, which begins to run upon delivery of the disagreement to the provider. this provision does not affect rights and obligations arising before the effective date of the new business terms and conditions.